
# About InVesalius

InVesalius is public health software that performs analysis and
segmentation of Virtual anatomical models, enabling the creation of
physical models with the aid of rapid prototyping (3D printing). From
two-dimensional (2D) images obtained through Computed Tomography (CT) or
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), the program allows users to create
three-dimensional (3D) anatomical representations of patients for
further medical use. It should be noted, however, that all software in 
the diagnostic context is fully supplementary, and each and every act 
committed is the responsibility of health professionals.  
  
InVesalius is named in honour of the Belgian doctor Andreas Vesalius
(1514-1564), widely considered the father of modern anatomy. InVesalius
software is developed by CTI (Center for Information Technology Center
Renato Archer), a unit of the Brazilian Ministry of Science and
Technology (MCT), since 2001. Initially, only the installation program
was distributed as freeware. In November 2007 InVesalius was made fully
available as free software and open source via the Public Software
Portal, allowing for communities of users and developers to connect.
InVesalius is, in short, a simple yet robust, free cross-platform tool
that is easy to use.  
  
The use of visualization technologies and three-dimensional analysis of
medical images, when combined with rapid prototyping (3D printing),
assists the surgeon in diagnosing pathologies and a detailed surgical
planning and simulation of complex process in advance, which may
involve, for example, a high degree of facial deformity or integration
of prosthetics.

InVesalius has demonstrated great versatility and has applications in
different areas, including medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine,
archeology and engineering. As a basic requirement, the images to be analyzed are in
DICOM (Digital Imaging Communications in Medicine). To date, InVesalius
reconstructs images stemmed from CT scanners and MRI machines.
Understanding medical images can help to form a better understanding of
the operations.
